Narrative

The artifact is the Training Manual I designed for my final in the IT-380 Cybersecurity Assurance class. The purpose of the final is to explain to new hire security analysts of what they should know and what they will be doing in the new position. It has best practices in the cybersecurity industry, examples of threats, explanations of proper business policies, etc. 

I selected this item because it was a class that I really enjoyed as I have a natural interest in cybersecurity. I wanted to display it in my portfolio as this type of job is one that I hope to attain in the future. While the original artifact doesn’t necessarily display skills in software development, it does show skills in design. A design of a new business building with the best practices in physical security, data security, and others are must. I wanted to expand on this final by implementing some software development skills. While I did not create a full app, I did use HTML and CSS to create an interactive quiz on cybersecurity topics. 

The refinement of the Training Manual went on without a hic up as I just refined and re wrote some of the topics. Where I began to have problems was the creation of the interactive quiz. While there would have been many ways to create this quiz, I decided to do it a slightly easier way with an html and CSS setup. I had not touched on HTML since I had the web development class years ago with SNHU. One specific part I was stumped on was how to make a new line in the code. I had to relearn the process of using <br> to break line. It was funny how something so simple is so different in other applications. I then created the layout of the quiz with CSS, designed the questions, figured out a way to score each question, setup the code to read the grades, setup up the feedback on the particular score you got with corresponding picture, etc. Overall, I think it came out great and it was fun working on it. 

You can see the code for yourself [HERE](https://github.com/anthonyochoa45/anthonyochoa45.github.io/tree/master/Cybersecurity%20Quiz)
