Narrative

The original Artifact was created sometime in April of 2018. It was the final for the DAD-220 Introduction to SQL class and was a cumulation of all the topics learned throughout the course. It consisted of creating a database in mysql, inserting data into tables, altering columns, updating data, deleting data, altering tables, manipulating primary keys, use of join and where commands, etc. I remember the final being a huge challenge and I am happy with the outcome of the project. 

I chose this artifact to display the skills that it takes to manipulate databases specifically in the MySQL field. The artifact displays skills that implement CRUD operations of different parts of databases such tables, records, etc. As my first two artifacts show knowledge in software design, algorithms and data structures, and this one rounds it all off with knowledge of databases. I think my enhanced artifact displays the ability to solve real world problems as there is data all over a company and the ability to import that data into a database in an efficient manner. 

The process of creating the database was similar to what I had done before and did not cause much trouble. The exporting of data from the JMP program also provided easy to use options such as the ability to export in a JSON format, text format, etc. I then took this data and saved it in the file tree in the codio website playground. Everything look good from that point, then I had to import the data from the file tree into the newly created database. This is where I had the most difficulty. Once I had the data into the proper file folder, I needed to find a way to import this data in a way that would avoid entering the data one by one with INSERT commands. This is where I had the most trouble as it was tricky importing data into an existing table without any errors. My first attempt was using the LOAD DATA INFILE command with the corresponding file path for the file. This looked to be the best option but as I continued trying after errors I could not get the command to execute. My diagnosis of this problem was due to the fact that I was doing everything through the MySQL shell rather that the work bench. I also tried LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE in hopes of parsing the text file and entering it into the corresponding jmp_data table. This did not work and still errored out. My second attempt was to try using the Json import uitilty in mysql. This was also a dead end since I was using the MySQL shell inside of the codio playground. I did not find the issue to this problem, but I am thinking it is due to the codio site and certain restrictions to downloading new utilites. My third attempt was with mysqlimport command. This seemed to pretty straight forward but no matter what I entered it would error out. After some research I found that it needed to be run outside of the mysql server itself.

You can see the file for yourself [HERE](https://github.com/anthonyochoa45/anthonyochoa45.github.io/blob/master/CS-499%20Database%20Enhancement.docx)
