
# PROFESSIONAL SELF ASSESSMENT
  My name is Anthony Ochoa and I am 27 years old from South Texas. I am married and have three children. I began my higher education in 2013 at Texas State Technical College in a Business degree plan. After a few semesters I changed my plan to something I was much more interested in, computers and technology. In that degree I learned a lot about the hardware side, but I came to a crossroads where I needed to either quit school or go to school online for a more flexible schedule. My answer was Southern New Hampshire University. I joined sometime in 2015 and choose to pursue an Associates in Information Technology. I was able to graduate with the Associate in Information Technology in 2017. My initial plan was to just use the Associates to gain a job in a higher position in the company I was working for at the time which was a Telecom Technician for ATT. As I searched around for a job, I noticed I needed more than an associate. So, I began pursing my bachelor’s degree in Computer Science in September 2017, with really no idea on where exactly I wanted to put that degree to use. I just knew that I was interested in the concepts and it was a broad degree that allowed me to go in a variety of different paths. I will be completed with the degree March 2020!


  My time in the Computer Science Degree curriculum with Southern New Hampshire University has sharpened and polished my skills in a number of different areas. A few of these areas include programming in Java, Python, C++, database design and manipulation, software engineering, networking, network and Telcom management, knowledge on operating systems, knowledge of cybersecurity best practices, computer graphics, software testing, Object oriented design, SDLC, data structures, algorithms, etc. 

  As mentioned before the entirety of the computer science degree allowed me to see a number of different areas and allowed me experiment with what I really liked. I had originally started the plan with a job as a telecom technician so as you can imagine the topics from telecommunication management and networking became very familiar. Although is just a tiny bit of the computer science world, I was pleasantly surprised on all of the future challenges the degree presented me with. Another part of the program I enjoyed was the software engineering concepts I learned in classes like IT-145 Foundation in Application Development, IT-270 Website Design, CS-250 Software Development Lifecycle, IT-380 Information Assurance and Cybersecurity, and CS-310 Collaboration and Team Project. 

  These classes gave the skills needed to design software with the use of SDLC, design and create websites using HTML/CSS, and real-world experience working on a remote team with help of eGit in eclipse to create software. One specific part worth noting is what was learned in the IT-145 Foundation in Application Development class. This class was a crash course in python syntax, data structures, algorithms, variables, arrays, loops, Boolean, data types, etc. While this class was very intensive it provided me soft skills that could be applied to the majority of programming languages. In CS-250 Software Development Life Cycle, I learned the inner working of developing software. One aspect that I will take along with me, is the use of Agile methodology. I feel as Agile Methodology is the future of software development over methods such as the Waterfall method. One informative topic in that similar area was the use of Scrum to create software. Specifically, were the different roles in this type of development. The roles included the Scrum Master, Team Members, Product Owner, and Stakeholder. One role worth noting was the Product Owner, whose job included business analyst, stakeholder liaison, project manager, etc. This class allowed us to fill in role of each position to see what we needed to do. Overall, I have learned so much in the program and I cannot wait to begin my career in the Computer Science field. 


  This portfolio’s purpose is to display in detail my skills in the Computer Science field as a whole. Specifically, we target the fields of Software Design and Engineering, Algorithms and Data Structures, and Databases.  The artifact from the Software Design and Engineering is a Final project from the IT-380 Information Assurance and Cybersecurity which is a training manual for new security analyst hired for a fictional company. The artifact for the Algorithms and Data structures is a Final Project from the IT-145 Foundation in Application Development class, which is a program written to monitor the different aspects of a Zoo. The artifact for the Databases is the Final Project from the DAD-220 Introduction to SQL which is a combination of different CRUD operation in a SQL database. These artifacts have been improved on to display the skills and knowledge needed to complete these tasks. You will find more information on the enhancements of the project in the narratives in the different fields. 


# CODE REVIEW
After much time and review, a complete code review has been completed for the Three Final Projects. 
This Narrated video can be found in my google drive link located at 
https://drive.google.com/open?id=1ZrVcnJtACOmh6f-T5a5eLLwcoWyegtG9
# ENHANCEMENT ONE
This is the Final Project for IT-380 Cybersecurity and Info Assurance enhancement one. It consists of a Training Manual for a new Security Analyst and A custom built interactive quiz to test the reader knowledge. It is located here [Cybersecurity Quiz](https://github.com/anthonyochoa45/anthonyochoa45.github.io/tree/master/Cybersecurity%20Quiz)
# ENHANCEMENT TWO
The second enhancement involves Algorithms and Data Structures. This was displayed with the enhancement of a recent project by making it more user friendly with an interface. This code can be found in the ZooProject 2 zip file.
# ENHANCEMENT THREE
