Narrative


The artifact is a final project from the IT-145 Foundation in Application Development class which involved creating a zoo monitoring program in java. The purpose of the program is to read from a provided text file to produce output for the user to read and then select for the specified animal or habitat. The class was taken way back near the end of 2016 and I have not touched on java since then. Although, java is one of my favorite programming languages, so I did not mind coming back to this assignment. 

I choose this assignment as my artifact because of the inclusion of various data structures, algorithms, and knowledge in application development needed to create a running executable program. There are a few algorithms in the code that are used but I will focus on the initial screen that is loaded and welcomes you to the zoo monitoring application. The main class begins with a while statement that prints out the options in a graphical way with the help of the JOptionPane utility. It then takes your input and assigns it to a variable. That variable then goes through a switch statement to read and match what you entered to go on to the next step in the program. This in itself is an algorithm in a basic format, as it first prompts you for input, takes your inputs, then assigns it where it needs to go, and the matches your input with the corresponding function. In the original code this was all done in the console with a bland textual interface, but I wanted to make this more user friendly. I was able to create the welcome message in a nice-looking dialog box, the animal options, habitat options, and the desired output all in visually pleasing graphical dialog boxes. 

I learned a lot on the various utilities built into java that can be used to create a graphical interface. These utilities include the swing library where the JOptionPane is found, the JFrame, the AWT(Abstract Windowing Toolkit), and others. The swing library was the one that I liked the most as it was easy to implement. All that needed to be done was to import the library into the file by using import javax.swing. I had some issues implementing the JOptionPane to play nicely with the original code because it was written to only work in the console rather than a user interface. You can see this in the code as I had to rewrite the entire opening prompt for the user on line 32 and then the changed input to convert into an integer data type. One issue I am not happy with is the flow of the program as you can when running the code. The prompt comes up and gives you the options, let’s say you hit 1 for animals. It gives you confirmation prompt that says animals and then one by one it gives you a different animal with its corresponding number. Then once it cycles through all of that it gives you the option to enter a choice. Then it gives you one by one the data from that animal. I would like this to be a little more streamlined with all the options of the animals to be listed in one window and then all the data from that animal listed on one window. I will continue to work on this. Overall, I think the program came out great and I am confident it will hit all of the requirements of the assignment. 

You can see the code for yourself [HERE](https://github.com/anthonyochoa45/anthonyochoa45.github.io/tree/master/ZooProject2)
